releases: add 3.1.0-rc release notes (#2149)
pingcap/docs: releases/3.1.0-rc.md

---
title: TiDB 3.1 RC Release Notes
category: Releases
---

> # TiDB 3.1.0 RC Release Notes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# TiDB 3.1 RC Release Notes
```

    - Forbid the nested `view` creation [#15440](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/15440)
    - Fix the error occurred when executing `SELECT CURRENT_ROLE()` after `SET ROLE ALL` [#15570](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/15570)
    - Fix the failure to identify the `view` name when executing the `select view_name.col_name from view_name` statement [#15573](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/15573)
    - Fix the issue that an error might occur when pre-processing DDL statements during the write of binlog information [#15444](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/15444)
    - Fix the panic occurred when accessing both `view`s and partitioned tables [#15560](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/15560)
    - Fix the error occurred when executing the `VALUES` function with the `update duplicate key` statement that contains the `bit(n)` data type [#15487](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/15487)
    - Fix the issue that the specified maximum execution time fails to take effect in some scenarios [#15616](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/15616)

>     - Fix the issue that fails to check whether the current ReadEngine contains TiKV server when generating the execution plan using `Index Scan` [#15773](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/15773)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue whether the current `ReadEngine` contains TiKV server is not checked when generating the execution plan using `Index Scan` [#15773](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/15773)
```

+ TiKV

    - Fix the issue of conflict check failure or data index inconsistency caused by inserting an existing key into a transaction and then deleting it immediately when disabling the consistency check parameter [#7112](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/7112)
    - Fix the calculation error when `TopN` compares unsigned integers [#7199](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/7199)

>     - Introduce a flow control mechanism in Raftstore to solve the problem that without flow control, it might cause slow log tracking and cause the cluster to be stuck, and the problem that the large transaction size might cause the frequent reconnection among TiKV servers [#7087](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/7087) [#7078](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/7078)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Introduce a flow control mechanism in Raftstore to solve the problem that without flow control, it might cause slow log tracking and cause the cluster to be stuck; and the problem that the large transaction size might cause the frequent reconnection among TiKV servers [#7087](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/7087) [#7078](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/7078)
```

    - Fix the issue that pending read requests sent to replicas might be permanently blocked [#6543](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/6543)
    - Fix the issue that replica read might be blocked by applying snapshots [#7249](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/7249)
    - Fix the issue that transferring leader might cause TiKV to panic [#7240](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/7240)

>     - Fix the issue that all SST files were filled with zeroes when backing up data to S3 [#6967](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/6967)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that all SST files are filled with zeroes when backing up data to S3 [#6967](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/6967)
```

>     - Fix the issue that the size of SST file was not recorded during backup, resulting in many empty Regions after restoration [#6983](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/6983)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the size of SST file is not recorded during backup, resulting in many empty Regions after restoration [#6983](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/6983)
```

    - Optimize the time to hold locks to improve the performance of backup [#7202](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/7202)
    - Support AWS IAM web identity for backup [#7297](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/7297)

+ PD

    - Fix the issue of incorrect Region information caused by data race when PD processes Region heartbeats [#2234](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2234)
    - Fix the issue that `random-merge-scheduler` fails to follow location labels and Placement Rules [#2212](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2221)

>     - Fix the issue that the placement rule is overwritten by another placement rule with the same startKey and endKey [#2222](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2222)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that a placement rule is overwritten by another placement rule with the same `startKey` and `endKey` [#2222](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2222)
```
